The success of Python rests on a rich ecosystem of first- and third-party software. 
Python benefits from both a strong standard library and a generous assortment of easily 
obtained and readily used libraries from third-party developers. Python has been 
enriched by decades of expansion and contribution.
Python’s standard library provides modules for common programming tasks—math, string 
handling, file and directory access, networking, asynchronous operations, threading, 
multiprocess management, and so on. But it also includes modules that manage common, 
high-level programming tasks needed by modern applications: reading and writing 
structured file formats like JSON and XML, manipulating compressed files, working with 
internet protocols and data formats (webpages, URLs, email). Most any external code that 
exposes a C-compatible foreign function interface can be accessed with Python’s ctypes 
module.
The default Python distribution also provides a rudimentary, but useful, cross-platform 
GUI library via Tkinter, and an embedded copy of the SQLite 3 database.
The thousands of third-party libraries, available through the Python Package Index 
(PyPI), constitute the strongest showcase for Python’s popularity and versatility.

Like C#, Java, and Go, Python has garbage-collected memory management, meaning the 
programmer doesn’t have to implement code to track and release objects. Normally, 
garbage collection happens automatically in the background, but if that poses a 
performance problem, you can trigger it manually or disable it entirely, or declare 
whole regions of objects exempt from garbage collection as a performance enhancement.
An important aspect of Python is its dynamism. Everything in the language, including 
functions and modules themselves, are handled as objects. This comes at the expense of 
speed (more on that later), but makes it far easier to write high-level code. Developers 
can perform complex object manipulations with only a few instructions, and even treat 
parts of an application as abstractions that can be altered if needed.
Python’s use of significant whitespace has been cited as both one of Python’s best and 
worst attributes. The indentation on the second line below isn’t just for readability; 
it is part of Python’s syntax. Python interpreters will reject programs that don’t use 
proper indentation to indicate control flow.

However, over the past few years, Python has emerged as a first-class citizen in modern 
software development, infrastructure management, and data analysis. It is no longer a 
back-room utility language, but a major force in web application creation and systems 
management, and a key driver of the explosion in big data analytics and machine 
intelligence.